KONFLUX-5692: added new page for how to reference secrets in Containerfile (#232)
konflux-ci/docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/configuring/referencing-secrets-in-Containerfile.adoc

.Procedure

. Create the needed secret using link:https://konflux-ci.dev/docs/how-tos/configuring/creating-secrets/[secrets].
. Set the value of the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter to the name of the secret that you want to use in your Containerfile.
. In the Containerfile, use a `RUN` command to mount the secret and make it available for use.

== Example: Setting the ADDITIONAL_SECRET Parameter in the build-container Task

Let's use an example of a cryptographic secret used to customize encryption in a Containerfile.

Given that you have created a secret named `cryptography` that contains various cryptography-related values (such as salts), here is how you would pass it to the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter in the build-container task in your Tekton pipelines:

[source,yaml]
----
...
  tasks:
    - name: build-container
      params:
        - name: ADDITIONAL_SECRET
          value: "cryptography"
...
----

== Example: Referencing the ADDITIONAL_SECRET in Your Containerfile Using RUN

> Building on the example above, we want to use these secrets as environment variables for a Rust cargo build command. We do this by mounting the secrets using the `RUN` command, then setting them as environment variables for the build process. Note that the `cryptography` secret contains two values: `SALT` and `KEY_HASH`. This example shows how to reference them both:

Reviewer: Instead of this note about the secret, can you provide an example secret?

Author: Ok added!

= Referencing Secrets in a Containerfile

> There may be times when you need to reference a secret directly in your Containerfile. For example, if your build uses cryptographic parameters stored in secrets. This can be accomplished by using the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` link:https://github.com/konflux-ci/build-definitions/blob/main/task/buildah-oci-ta/0.4/README.md[param] parameter of the `build-container` task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes you might need to reference a secret directly in your Containerfile. For example, if your build uses cryptographic parameters stored in secrets, you can use the link:https://github.com/konflux-ci/build-definitions/blob/main/task/buildah-oci-ta/0.4/README.md[`ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter] to customize encryption in your Containerfile.
```

.Procedure

> . Create the needed secret using link:https://konflux-ci.dev/docs/how-tos/configuring/creating-secrets/[secrets].

Reviewer 3: Please update link here
```
[vale] reported by reviewdog 🐶
[Konflux.UpstreamLinks] Replace URL of upstream doc 'https://konflux-ci.dev/docs/how-tos/configuring/creating-secrets/' with 'xref:ROOT:relative/path/to/upstream/file.adoc'.
```

> . Create the needed secret using link:https://konflux-ci.dev/docs/how-tos/configuring/creating-secrets/[secrets].

Reviewer 2: Consider rolling your example into the procedure.
```suggestion
. Create the secret with salt and hash keys by using the xref:ROOT:/how-tos/configuring/creating-secrets.adoc[Creating secrets for your builds] procedure:
+
[subs="+quotes",yaml]
----
kind: Secret
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: _<your_secret_name>_
  namespace: _<your_workspace_tenant>_
data:
  SALT: 11111111111
  KEY_HASH: 11111111111
type: Opaque
----
```

Reviewer 4: In #398: rolled the example into the procedure

> . Set the value of the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter to the name of the secret that you want to use in your Containerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the build-container task of your Tekton pipeline, set the value of the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter to _<your_secret_name>_:
+
[subs="+quotes",yaml]
----
...
  tasks:
    - name: build-container
      params:
        - name: ADDITIONAL_SECRET
          value: "_<your_secret_name>_"
...
----
```

Reviewer 4: In #398: applied

> . In the Containerfile, use a `RUN` command to mount the secret and make it available for use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the Containerfile, use a `RUN` command to mount the secret and set it as an environment variable for a Rust `cargo build` command:
+
[subs="+quotes",docker]
----
# Build with secrets
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=_<your_secret_name>_/SALT \
    --mount=type=secret,id=_<your_secret_name>_/KEY_HASH \
    export SALT="$(cat /run/secrets/_<your_secret_name>_/SALT)" && \
    export KEY_HASH="$(cat /run/secrets/_<your_secret_name>_/KEY_HASH)" && \
    cargo build --release
----
```

Reviewer 4: In #398: applied with slightly different wording

> == Example Secrets
> 
> For the purposes of these examples we will use a secret named "cryptography" and has two keys, SALT & KEY_HASH. It's is defined like this:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> kind: Secret
> apiVersion: v1
> metadata:
>   name: cryptography
>   namespace: <your-workspace-tenant>
> data:
>   SALT: 11111111111
>   KEY_HASH: 11111111111
> type: Opaque
> ---
> 
> == Example: Setting the ADDITIONAL_SECRET Parameter in the build-container Task
> 
> Let's use an example of a cryptographic secret used to customize encryption in a Containerfile.
> 
> Given that you have created a secret named `cryptography` that contains various cryptography-related values (such as salts), here is how you would pass it to the `ADDITIONAL_SECRET` parameter in the build-container task in your Tekton pipelines:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> ...
>   tasks:
>     - name: build-container
>       params:
>         - name: ADDITIONAL_SECRET
>           value: "cryptography"
> ...
> ----
> 
> == Example: Referencing the ADDITIONAL_SECRET in Your Containerfile Using RUN
> 
> Building on the example above, we want to use these secrets as environment variables for a Rust cargo build command. We do this by mounting the secrets using the `RUN` command, then setting them as environment variables for the build process. Note that the `cryptography` secret contains two values: `SALT` and `KEY_HASH`. This example shows how to reference them both:
> 
> [source,docker]
> ----
> # Build with secrets
> RUN --mount=type=secret,id=cryptography/SALT \
>     --mount=type=secret,id=cryptography/KEY_HASH \
>     export SALT="$(cat /run/secrets/cryptography/SALT)" && \
>     export KEY_HASH="$(cat /run/secrets/cryptography/KEY_HASH)" && \
>     cargo build --release
> ----
> 

Reviewer 2: If you decide to roll the examples into each procedure step with the user-defined variables, then this Example section is no longer necessary. 
```suggestion
```

[NOTE]
====

> Only the `RUN` command can be used to reference the secret in this manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only the `RUN` command references the secret as an environment variable in your Containerfile.
```

Reviewer 4: In #398: reworded to (hopefully) better reflect the original intent:

> Only `RUN` commands are able to reference secrets.

====

== Additional Resources

> * For more information about build-container buildah parameters, see link:https://github.com/konflux-ci/build-definitions/blob/main/task/buildah-oci-ta/0.4/README.md[buildah parameters].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For more information about Buildah container image parameters, see link:https://github.com/konflux-ci/build-definitions/blob/main/task/buildah-oci-ta/0.4/README.md[buildah-oci-ta task parameters].
```
